Expanding our ministry also requires endurance.
We may need to learn a new language, a new culture,
and adapt to very different living conditions.
Consider the example of Denton and Janet Hopkinson.
Brother Hopkinson currently serves as a member of the Philippines Branch Committee.
He was baptized in 1943 and has served in the Philippines
for more than 60 years and Sister Hopkinson for more than 50 years.
What challenges have they faced and what has helped them to endure?
Let's find out.
My mother learned the truth from a neighbor.
I was 10 years old when I was baptized.
But then I became a pioneer when I was 16 years of age.
My father and I were baptized at the same circuit assembly in October of 1950.
And at that time I was 11 years old.
I set a date after I finished high school to go into my pioneering and that's what I did.
Later on of course I got an application to attend the 35th class of Gilead.
And I was still 20 at the time.
After I had been pioneering for about three years,
I was called up for compulsory military service.
Of course I refused to accept that.
But the judge sentenced me to six months in prison.
And while I was in prison, the application for Gilead was approved and the invitation came.
Gilead was a wonderful experience.
And when we arrived in the Philippines, we did not expect ever to return to our home country.
Coming to the Philippines as the first port of call,
it was the first time that I met Denton.
But my partner and I were going to Thailand.
Arriving in Thailand was quite a change.
Coming from a cold country, it was hot.
So that was a challenge to get used to.
Brother Leech, my partner and I,
we didn't learn much of the language in the first few months.
So I did try to learn by comparing the Let God Be True book in English
with the Let God Be True book in Tagalog.
But that wasn't so easy because the grammar is so much different to English.
After six months in the Philippines,
and we found a pile of letters on our desk in our room.
And that was our assignment to go into the circuit work.
This was really a challenge for me.
It's something new.
I was only 22 years old at that time.
I remember one time I went to a congregation and they showed me my room.
It was just a plain room.
It was a new house.
Just newly built.
But it was just a wooden floor and four walls.
And that was it.
And in the corner, a banic sleeping mat.
In some cases, there was a toilet.
Outside the house, mostly outside the house.
But in some cases, there was no toilet at all.
So you just had to find your own way into the nearby countryside.
After about two and a half years in the circuit work,
then I received the letter assigning me a district overseer.
And then oftentimes we have to travel by bus in some remote areas.
I remember one time in Masbati.
The road was so rough and it was long.
It was much more difficult than it was in the circuit work.
I had no vehicle to travel in.
It was mostly public transportation.
I've never owned a car in my life.
It was while I was serving in the district work
that I received the letter telling me to come to Bethel.
When I came to Bethel, brother Stuart, the branch servant told me
that I was to look after his work while he was away traveling
to visit various countries in the zone work.
And I was really felt completely unprepared
and unqualified for that kind of work at that time.
After I was in Thailand for four years,
Denton and I had decided to get married
and brother Nor had agreed that I would be the one to be reassigned
to the Philippines.
And we were married in 1965.
I have found that whatever assignment you're given in Jehovah's organization,
although it seems intimidating,
it seems to be difficult at the start.
But if you accept it and trust in Jehovah
and don't approach it as if you know everything
or you can do it yourself, but really trust in Jehovah to help you,
then you can succeed.
The Jehovah's help.
We can all have the privilege of serving him
and can all get the help of the Holy Spirit
to continue to serve him faithfully.
Sometimes brothers ask me how I was able to endure that long
for 60 years in missionary service.
But I believe it is being willing to endure problems
with the hope that things will improve as time goes by.
And Jehovah himself will give us a strength.